---
layout: post
title: Week 6 Small contributions
---

### Making small contributions
While I haven't done too many individual contributions yet, the ones I have done have been focused on making wikipedia edits. I have done some grammar copyedits, and found a reference for a stub article. I am able to get through the grammar related contributions fairly quickly and throughly. Many articles on wikipedia are written with redundant language or other stylistic mistakes. A significant number of articles also have spelling mistakes that are easily caught by a grammar checker, especially in longer articles. Finding the reference was the hardest type of the edits that I've done. The page's subject was about a French writer, but little information is easily searchable for the subject matter. The subject also shared names with two other people who have wikipedia articles, one of whom is a much more famous artist. As such, it took some digging to find an academic source that fits with the minimal information on the article. 
<!--more-->

### Challenges
While I have been doing easier fixes on wikipedia, I have also started to look at harder fixes. For example, I tried to work on expanding the description section of an article on Profundiconus barazeri, a type of sea snail. When I looked beyond wikipedida for information, most other sources do not have concretely written information for the species as a whole. The most specific information that I found was on [this website](https://www.gbif.org/species/7558808). This site had several specific records of these snails individually, but no central defininition. Personally, I am also not educated enough on this matter to give specific generalizations towards the topic. As such, I was unable to expand the section despite finding relevant information that would contribute beyond what was already written on wikipedia.