---
layout: post
title: Week 4 Browser Extensions
---

### git excercises
My previous experiences with using git were limited to a few other CS classes that used Github. The projects that I worked on were generally small and individual, so I could always push directly to the repository without having to worry about branches or pull requests. As such, I was much more familiar with certain git commands than otherse, like push, pull, status, add, commit, and log. 
Since Github is a cloud service, I was also unaware of a lot of git's offline functionalities. I had not really thought of using a version control system locally, but it does seem preferable to copy-pasting code to a back up text file or commenting out large blocks of code to update or debug something. Having a local back up with different versions also makes it much easier to debug code. For example if I significantly break something trying to implement new code, I can quickly go back to a runnable version and see what changes broke the program.

<!--more-->

### Other extension presentations
Some of the other extension presentations were interesting in that they leaned more into changing existing html on a given page than being a small portable program. The browser scroller doubled the body html of a site each time the bottom of the page was reached. Meanwhile, another group made an extension that cycles the color of text on a site. I liked these extensions because I think they take advantage of actually being a web extension. Most of the projects, including our group's, can be a separate program from the web browser. However, extensions like those two, as well as adblockers, actually extend browser functionalities.
