---
layout: post
title: Week 10 Cathedrel and the Bazaar
---

### The Cathedrel and the Bazaar
The cathedral model restricts access of the source code in between releases, limiting them to maintainers or exclusive developers. While they can take suggestions from an open source community, they limit actual code writing to their own team.
The bazaar model meanwhile opens its development freely, allowing anyone to work on the source code in the development process. This model will lead to many more developers and people familiar with the internals of the project, but also introduces risk as anyone can change it.
The project that our group is working on follows the bazaar model, as source code is available at all times and constantly changing on the development version. The plays along with the statement that "Given enough eyeballs, all bugs are shallow." With a decent sized community, issues are frequently raised from non-maintainers. Another statement that the project follows is a similar one: "The next best thing to having good ideas is recognizing good ideas from your users. Sometimes the latter is better." On their discord channel, sometimes people ask for capabilities or features of the project that are not yet present, which the maintainers then create issues from.

<!--more-->


### OSPOs
A company that I found to have an OSPO was Google, which has a multitude of project and features very prevalent ones like Android and Chromium. However, the website does not list specific persons overseeing OSPO. Searching elsewhere I found that Chris DiBona was the head of Google's Open Source program until 2023, but could not find their current head of open source. According to Google's OSPO, they are focused on "making open source more open," and run programs to increase accesbility to open source. In doing so, the OSPO helps Google have access towards free discussions and improvements upon projects for which they internally use.

Another OSPO that I found was Microsoft's, which also has a multitude of projects. Microsoft's OSPO presented similar messages to Googles. And by looking at the authors of its blogs, certain names and positions of people who work there are available. However, there is still no actual directory of people in charge of the OSPO. A difference in the Microsoft Ospo's presented message is that it has language that centralizes more on actually working on its projects than spreading open source accessibility.

The Coffehouse model that Warren discussed remedies the lessening security of the bazaar model and the limits of cathedrel model. By having an OSPO, there is effectively a consultant for open source projects. The coffeehouse also opens up the potential for these competing companies to standardize things they may share or need to share. 