---
layout: post
title: Week 1 Introduction to Open Source
---


### Open Source
When I hear "open source," I tend to imagine a group of originally unconnected programmers coming together to collaborate on a single project, which happens to be free for anyone to use. Many advantages of open-source projects come with those two features. The lack of cost means greater accessibility to all, and the projects create communities and networking opportunities for their contributors. However, this also attracts people of differing programming skills, creating vulnerabilities when someone makes a mistake. I chose to take a course on open-source development to learn how to contribute to projects afterward and help build up my programming experience.
<!--more-->
### Projects

#### Visual Studio Code
VScode is the IDE that I use for most languages, outside of Java with Eclipse. Plugins are easy to find and use, making the environment very easy to configure. It is also more visually appealing, especailly when compared to Eclipse.

#### Docker
Docker lets developers package things into containers, which ensures consistency and helps stop machine-specific issues. I've used it a decent amount for some courses I've taken.

#### Wikipedia
Wikipedia is the most used open-source project that I'm aware of. It's great for getting a brief overview of most topics and its users are much less limited compared to the other listed projects.

#### TensorFlow
TensorFlow is a Python library mainly related to machine learning, and commonly used to train and run neural networks. I had to use the project in my ML course and it helped with giving input towards a very theory-based course.
