---
layout: post
title: Week 5 Project Evaluationss
---

### Different open source projects
Some of the different projects that we looked at in class showed how diverse in topic source projects can be. While many projects like VScode and the Violet UML editor are built for and by people in the same fields, some require more background knowledge to contribute to. The now inactive OpenFarm project, for example, tackles a field mostly unrelated from coding. While coding knowledge is needed to contribute to the project, people also need to have some prior knowledge on farming to be more useful. Some projects have even higher barriers of entry, like Matplotlib or many of NASA's open source projects. Many open source projects go beyond coding, and need people with more diverse backgrounds to be effective contributors. 
Like the vast differences in topics, open source projects also differ vastly in scale. The previously mentioned OpenFarm had 56 contributors and a little over 500 issues over its lifetime. Meanwhile VScode, still very active, has 8574 open issues and 181863 closed issues as of 2/23/25. Different projects have completely different scales that impact how accessible they are to a beginning contributor.

<!--more-->

### Looking foward to working on a project
I think that working on an open source project will be a nice change of pace from working on course-related projects. Whereas the projects that I have mostly worked on so far are self-contained, working on something that has direct practical application seems a little more impactful.

### Potential Challenges
Challenges with picking an open source project to work on comes from the differences in topic and scale of the projects. Some of these challenges can not be overcome in a reasonable time frame for the course either. It is not feasible for me to start learning about physics just to work on a NASA open source project, or dive too much deeper into Math just to work on Matplotlib. Even if I find the projects interesting, my knowledge base is limited and some projects are too far out of my field. Finding an active but not too active project can also be difficult. Since I am only beginning to contribute, I do not have the experience to keep up with a project on the scale of VScode, especially if the project does not assign issues.
