---
layout: post
title: Week 7 Autogen
---

### Group progress
Right now we have a group member working on helping fix the project's website while another member and I are working on creating a sample for using the library with a front-end framework. 
While the issue seemed relatively simple to start with, it has taken a fair amount of time to understand exactly what the Autogen core library is doing under the hood. Because the issue calls for the autogen core library to be used, and not the autogen agentchat library, we do not have the ability to use the more complete library.
I have gotten the front-end integration to work, and now am working on fixing the underlying logic. Generally, the issue does not require too many lines of code, but knowing what to change and understanding everything conceptually is taking a while. I am hoping to finish working on this issue within a few days and move on to another issue.
Over the next few weeks, I think that we could probably finish some bigger issues and something more involved with the back end of the project.

<!--more-->


### The Presentation
The presentation was interesting in how it showed open source can be an entry point for computer science. Even though the presenter did not study computer science as an undergraduate, his experience with open source projects in turn helped train his computer science related skills, allowing him to pivot to CS for graduate school. It was also neat how his work on open source projects helped him network with other people in the project.
