---
layout: post
title: Week 7 Autogen
---

### Picking a project
Our group decided to try working on AutoGen, an open source Microsoft research project. None of us were completely set on doing a project going in, and so we looked at quite a few project evaluations before actually choosing Autogen. My team members are more familiar with working on frontend while I am a bit more comfortable working on backend, so we also needed a project that had a good mix of issues. We did consider freeCodeCamp, which seemed like a doable choice. But I had also done my project evaluation on Autogen, and it also seemed like a good fit. Plus, Autogen was both smaller and newer, and working on something related to ai seems pretty relevant right now. The project is mostly written in python, which we were all familiar with as well. 

<!--more-->
### Work so far
So far we have taken on two issues, both good for first time contributors. One is adding a feature to an Autogen sample, labeling the output with their message source, while the other is fixing broken website links. Over the last few days I have been working on the first issue. The actual code change was only one line, but looking into the sample and seeing how it works took quite a while. I made a pull request yesterday and it has been accepted.

### Obstacles
So far an obstacle we have run into is choosing an issue to work on beyond the ones that are labeled for first time contributors. These issues generally require a bit more understanding of the project, and we need to take some time to see what is feasible to work on. At our next meeting we are planning on discussing about this more and hopefully settle on a slightly bigger issue to work on.