---
layout: post
title: Week 2 Code of Conducts
---

### Go Community Code of Conduct
Being an online project means that people in Go's community can come from various socioeconomic backgrounds or different cultures. To make sure everyone working on the project is "on the same page," Go's has a clear code of conduct. While most of the code's listed values should be implicit in real life, having the document helps reinforce social norms in such an ephemeral online community. The code can help raise efficiency, as the written point of "Be constructive" contributes to healthier discussions and feedback. Should an issue arise between community members, having clear-cut values also makes arbitrations much less finicky. Like Go, other projects should also have a code of conduct to create a safer and more efficient community.
<!--more-->

Go's code of conduct is similar to the Contributor Covenant but adds some features. One such difference is the addition of the statement "This Code of Conduct also applies outside the project spaces when the Project Stewards have a reasonable belief that an individual’s behavior may have a negative impact on the project or its community." By adding the statement, Go protects its community from being associated with people with a negative or dangerous online presence. Another feature is the line "We do not believe that all conflict is bad; healthy debate and disagreement often yield positive results. However, it is never okay to be disrespectful or to engage in behavior that violates the project’s code of conduct." Adding this line allows Go members more leeway in debating, promoting constructive discussions. As long as members stay respectful, they are explicitly granted more freedom than the Contributor Convenant.

### Eclipse's Code of Conduct
[Eclipse's Code of Conduct](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php) also borrows from the Contributor Covenant, but has a much longer sections relating to code violations. Perhaps due to the sheer popularity of Eclipse, its larger community has led to a greater number of disagreements. The document also has an amendments section, meaning that the code has likely evolved over time and will continue to deviate from the original covenant.

### Sugar Labs' Code of Conduct
Sugar Labs' Code of Conduct is based on the Ubuntu Code of Conduct, and has a very different layout compared to the previous two codes of conduct. Generally, the code highlights and encourages collaboration and communication between its community. It is less keen to emphasize the potential of something going wrong. Where as the codes based on the Contributor Covenant devote large sections to the violation of the code, this code only makes a short reference near the beginning: "The Oversight Board will arbitrate in any dispute over the conduct of a member of the community."

### Python's Code of Conduct
[Python's Code of Conduct](https://policies.python.org/python.org/code-of-conduct/) is more similar to the Contributor Covenant than it is to the Ubuntu code of conduct in that it is much more concerned with what can go wrong than what can go right. It goes further however, diving into specific ways that the code can be broken, as well as a detailed list of areas where the code is in scope. From Sugar Labs -> Go -> Eclipse -> Python in terms of scale, it seems that the larger a project, the more detailed it has to be in handling violations of the code of conduct.
